---
layout: "post"
title: "BCG25\/BBCL25"
date: "2020-02-28 09:11"
---
Friday was the official start of the publicly open BCG25/BBCL25 conference/workshop. It was kicked off with an opening presentation by Ian Nichols and an introduction by our head of dept. Stina Carlsson.

**Björn C. G. Karlsson (Linnaeus Uni, SE)**  
_The Role of the NAC 71-82 Amino Acid Stretch of a alfa-Synuclein During Misfolding_
Presented research on small peptide aggregates and their role in, amongst other things, Parkinson's decease. The presentation focused on a particular sequence potentially responsible for the misfolding of these peptides and discussing what potential effects this could have in the decease development and/or progression. A main focus was on the NAC 71-84 amino acid stretch and its roll in the formation of fibrils. Njörn presented results from both molecular dynamics simulations and ATR FT-IR studies of capped, uncapped and "wild-type" peptides. As wel as some nice graphical presentations of the aggregation process. Simulation data was also presented regarding micellar interactions, what happens when these peptides come into contact with surfaces. The data was on SDS micelles in contact with these small peptide fragments.

**Subramanian Suriyanarayanan (Linnaeus Uni, SE)**  
_Hierarchical Nanostructured Materials from Renewable Sources: A Bio-inspired Approach_
A presentation of work with hierarchical nano-structured materials from bio-renewable sources. The focus of the presentation was on polymer chemistry. In particular, the development of methods to work with renewable sources and sustainable methods to produce sustainable materials, replacing current non-renewable and non-sustainable processes and materials. There was some interesting details regarding sustainable development, minimising the carbon footprint and maintaining a balanced carbon cycle. One of the research tasks was a reduction in the use of materials stemming from petrol derived fossil carbon sources as examples of non-renewable resources. There are apparently problems with biopolymers that have been identified. These included solubility issues and problems with stability and rigidity of produced materials. Some of the presented examples of bio-renewable sources included proteins, sugars and resin. Biopolymers are hierarchical by nature, a property making them very interesting. Research projects were presented where work had been done with scaffolds, growing polymers around a scaffold and removing the scaffold after forming the polymer around it.This allows for control of both the size and shape of formed pores. Some insights from work with bio-based monomers was also included. Some examples of sources were terpenes, acrylates and phenolic acids.

**Johan Svenson (Cawthron Institute, NZ) - _via link_**
_The Cawthron Institute & Life in NZ_
There was a brief presentation regarding the [Cawthron Institute](https://www.cawthron.org.nz/), New Zealand's largest independent science and research organisation, working with environmental protection and sustainable development. The presentation included details regarding Johans role as a science leader in algal research and bioactives.

**Gustaf D. Olsson (Linnaeus Uni, SE)**  
_Computationally Predicting Ligand Discrimination Properties in Molecularly Imprinted Polymers_
Well, I suppose you'd have to ask someone else regarding the quality here. I presented the work I've done combining docking and molecular dynamics simulations trying to find indications of molecular discriminating properties in molecularly Imprinted polymers. One thing I did learn while preparation

**Subban Kathiravan (Linnaeus Uni, SE)**  
_Base Metal Catalysed C-H Activation Reactions_
This presentation focused on research with base metal catalysed C-H activation reactions. It included discussions regarding the availability of catalytically active materials and a need for alternatives, as well as potential application of this technology. Examples included cobalt(II) catalysed C-H activation with a range of substrates and products. This presentation included a large body of examples regarding work with different metal catalysts producing a range of structures with excellent yields. There was also some details regarding electro-oxidation and C-H activation using copper(II) and recycling the catalyst. An interesting presentation.

**Michael J. Whitcombe (Uni Leicester, UK)**  
_The Leicester Biotechnology Group_
This presentation was regarding the production of high affinity MIP nanoparticles on solid phase support. The process presented is capable of producing "monoclonal" molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) nanoparticles with an affinity purification step included in the synthesis protocol. Using this approach, MIP nanoparticles have been produced against bacteria and viruses. This presentation also included some comparison between produced MIPs and antibodies. Western blot showed what was presented as identical results. Thus showing that MIPs can replace antibodies with regards to selectivity, highlighting how these synthetic antibodies and regular antibodies compare. Strong arguments were made for MIPs being as good as antibodies. A new displacement assay was also presented, the developed assay shared a lot of characteristics with an assay developed in collaboration with members of the BBCL research group using [MIP coated magnetic nanoparticles and a fluorescent reporter molecule](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/anie.201805772). There were lots of examples of applications in assays and sensors, including electrochemical sensors using the swelling properties of MIPs.

**Henning Henschel (Uppsala Uni, SE)**  
_IR Spectra from Force Field Methods - Quantifying Their Quality, and Turning Those Numbers into Insights_
This presentation was theoretical in nature and also had an alternate title being "This calculated IR spectrum looks like ....". A number of IR spectrums were created/calculated based on data and simulations using a series of forcefields and quantum mechanical calculations. The calculated spectrums were then compared against experimentally derived ones available in an online database. This involved a large number of simulations and calculations. It turns out that all the molecular dynamics forcefields performed poorly when comparing calculated IR spectrums against experimental counterparts. There was a poor correlation where the general forcefields failed to identify the correct database entries when comparing the derived spectral data. Amongst the investigated forcefields, [CGenFF](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2888302/) did marginally better then other force fields investigated, including [GAFF](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/jcc.20035), [OPLS](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/ja9621760) and potentially some additional force field I did not remember. All failing badly compared to the quantum mechanical calculations (of course(?)). There are of course some things to consider, for one the simulations were performed in gas phase where force fields are parameterise for simulations in solution. On a positive note, everything needed to replicate these studies is supposed to be released  with a publications at some point, including a new module for the gromacs software allowing development of new and improved forcefields. I am looking forward to both this publication and the associated tools.

**Louise Elmlund (National Forensic Center, SE)**  
_A Forensic Reality Check - Living with the Matrix_
This was a nice presentation regarding work at the drug analysis unit at the Swedish National Forensics Centre (NFC). There were some interresting details regarding projects developing techniques to analyse samples without sample preparation. Large seizures can contain a large variety of compounds creating issues with sample workup and analyses where resources usually only allow working  with small spot check sub-samples. There was a need for large scale analysis to be performed in minutes, a simple and robust method with reproducible results. Near infrared (NIR) spectroscopy was an initial candidate. However, a general lack of reference spectra for illegal substances which does not come with a standard was a problem. In the end, NIR and 2D-PCA analysis software made it possible to analyse large quantities of capsules and tablets at once, getting a separate spectrum for each capsule and identifying variations between different capsules. There was also a need for equipment for rapid testing and use "on site" by non-technical staff. Raman spectroscopy turned out to be a candidate for a hand held instrument for use in the field by non technical staff. This would allow quick analysis of dangerous compounds in site. Both of these methods are of course non-destructive works with low concentrations of sample.

**Sofia M. E. Nilsson (Uppsala Uni, SE)**  
_3D Printed Miniaturized Glass Devices for Online Pharmaceutical Analysis_
This presentation involved some interesting details regarding 3D printed channels in/of glass for different application purposes. One example presented was a chip-based 3D printed platform used to performing reactions in a glass capillary by pumping chemicals into one end and detecting what comes out. Analytical detection coupled to chip for integration.

**Håkan S. Andersson (Karolinska Institute, SE)**  
_Stockholm, Uppsala, Knots, Ducks and Worms_
This presentation included details regarding work in the medicinal biomedicine and biophysics section at Karolinska Institute. It involved some details regarding the transitioning from working with MIPs to peptides, including alfa-defensins. It also contained a presentation of Mallards as a reservoirs for zoonotic infections. These birds are asymptotic carriers, living in close proximity to humans all over the entire northern hemisphere. There was also some information regarding toxinology, using active compounds for receptor characterisation (orphan receptors), "green" biopesticides and defensins in toxinology. There was also a lot of details regarding work with bootlace worms in efforts to identify toxins or defensins in these animals. This led to a successful spinoff company where these structures are marketed as biological pesticides. The presentation also included more about toxins from different worms from different places, part of a larger nemertea focused research project.

This was the last presentation open to the general public. The evening was spent with additional "closed" presentations and dinner. This was a really interesting and enlightening day of lectures. Hopefully we do not have to wait another five years for the next round of presentations.
