---
layout: "post"
title: "SARS-CoV-2, round 2?"
date: "2020-08-25 08:41"
---
So it now seems that maybe [you can catch it twice](https://arstechnica.com/science/2020/08/first-confirmed-case-of-sars-cov-2-reinfection-reported-in-hong-kong/). Yesterday there were a number of articles referring to a person being reinfected with SARS-CoV-2 in Hong Kong. Articles were found in [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/aug/24/case-of-man-with-coronavirus-for-second-time-stokes-reinfection-fears-hong-kong) and [The Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/08/24/coronavirus-reinfection-hong-kong/). An otherwise healthy 33 year old person tested positive during reentry screening into Hongkong traveling from Spain via the UK. This after having been hospitalised this spring as being confirmed infected with SARS-CoV-2.

The article presenting the data has not been peer reviewed and is a preprint draft, this means that the data might not be fully accurate though it does raise some big concerns. Discussions regarding this include variations to the virus or a missing immunity. Either of these outcomes are just about as discouraging. There has been several publications showing decreasing signs of a prepared immune system some 3-4 months after infection with undetectable levels of antibodies. This indicates that there is no lasting immunity to the virus and one can potentially catch it multiple times, making a lack of effective treatment or vaccines a problem. If minor changes to to virus has occurred, allowing it to evade whatever mechanisms which might keep people from getting reinfected, this also means that any immunity towards the virus might not matter once a "second or third wave" hits as people could be reinfected just as with the yearly flu or the common cold though with much more severe consequences.

This is something which deserves some attention redirected. If this information turns out to be accurate, it will be a huge blow to countries like the one I am residing in, where the concept of "heard immunity" has been tossed around a lot this year. The now globally relaxed travel restrictions and returns to schools all over the globe, combined with either of the alternatives of a changing virus or missing long term immunity could also mean that this infection becomes endemic.
